# EE418-Website
This is the website for EE418


To connect to the current database the IP address of the computer that wishes to connect and run the server must be sent to the person who has the actual mysql database on their computer. The person with the server must then allow your IP to be able to have remote administrator access through the following commands in mysql:
Open mysql shell
Run \sql
Used to switch to using sql in the shell and no other language
Run \connect root@localhost
Used to connect to the databases hosted by the root user
Run use seniordesign;
seniordesign is the name of the database we used. If a new database is being created this can be named whatever.
Run the following commands to give grant permissions to another IP:
mysql> CREATE USER 'root'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'PASSWORD'; 
mysql> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'%' WITH GRANT OPTION; 
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
If the user has a different name than root then substitute that out
Switch the % to whatever the full IP address of the computer is
Password can be whatever, however must be the same as the password set in settings.py
This will give full permission to another user on a separate IP, who can now run the server using the database hosted on a separate computer.
There are some security considerations that should be noted before giving remote users full access to run the server. To read about them, follow this link: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/50177216/how-to-grant-all-privileges-to-root-user-in-mysql-8-0

If you want to create your own database for the server follow this link: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.2/ref/databases/
The database parameters used to connect to it will be made in settings.py
Database migration will likely need to occur, depending on what database is used

To access the github repository, use the following steps:
On github, sign in and select Settings > Developer Settings > Personal Access Tokens.
Click “Generate New Token”, provide a note, and give it full permissions (selecting all boxes)
Copy the generated token, place it inside the string of backend/frontend/views.py under the variable github_pat. 
Example: github_pat = 'ghp_serrxXHySjfBcT8xcBrOcXu27TDpnC2USeCO'

With these steps completed, the projects page should be able to connect to the account associated with the token.


To open port 80 on the server computer: https://wiki.mcneel.com/zoo/window7firewall
This is required because port 80 is the HTTP port and allows for users on the internet to be able to publicly access the website

To run the server:
Open powershell (or any powershell equivalent)
Does not need to be run as an administrator
Change directory to site/backend
You will now be in the directory with the manage.py file in it, this file essentially runs all of the django commands from migrating the database, running it, creating superusers, and debugging.
Run the following command: python manage.py runserver IP_ADDRESS:8000
Running the command without the IP_ADDRESS will run it locally, this is good for debugging but does not make the website publicly accessible
The inclusion of the :8000 makes the server open on port 80, which is the HTTP port
If there are no errors and all files for the server compile it will begin running the server in powershell. Actions on the website will become visible on the shell after users do them, this can be useful for debugging.
To stop the server (there is no pause function, only running or stopped), press CTRL-C. This terminates the server from powershell. There is no way to stop the server from the website.

To get our FrontEnd tool Vite working with the django server (this involves the css and js found in site/backend/frontend/static) you should do the following:

Getting Started:

First you need Node Package manager or npm installed.
Run “npm i” in the site directory to install all the correct node packages.

Running the development server:

Then run “npm run dev” to run the dev server. Next run the django server using the previously mentioned steps.
Go to the link that “python manage.py runserver” outputs.
Now whatever code changed on the css or js will automatically update using Hot Module Replacement.

Running the frontend for production:

Run “npm build” to create static files and the manifest.json file.
In production mode, the library will read the manifest.json file generated by ViteJS and import all CSS files dependent of this script (before importing the script).
Now run the django server using “python manage.py runserver” and go the url that gives.
